*Allow the raw chicken to sit at room temp for 30 min before using for even baking.
**Don't over-bake or the breast will be dry. Keep in mind internal temp will rise another 5-10 degrees after it comes out of oven. 

Spatchcock Chicken:

-   4 1/4 lb whole chicken*

-   1/2 tsp salt, (we used sea salt)

-   1/8 tsp black pepper

Flavored Butter:

-   4 Tbsp unsalted butter, softened

-   1 Tbsp olive oil, plus more to drizzle

-   1 Tbsp parsley, finely chopped

-   2 garlic cloves, minced

-   1/2 tsp lemon zest

-   1 Tbsp lemon juice

-   1 tsp salt, plus more for vegetables

-   1/8 tsp black pepper

1-Pan Chicken Dinner:

-   2 lbs medium red potatoes, scrubbed and quartered

-   3 medium carrots, peeled and quartered

-   8 oz Brussels sprouts, trimmed and halved

## Directions

1. (Preheat oven to 425˚F after step 4). Place chicken breast-side down with the wings/ neck facing towards you. To remove the spine, use kitchen shears to cut through the ribs right next to the spine along both sides. Open rib cage and use a heavy knife to score down the sternum. This will help pop out the breast bone and flatten chicken. Season inside the chicken with 1/2 tsp salt and a pinch of black pepper.
2. Flip the chicken over breast side up and set on parchment-lined, rimmed baking half sheet. Using the palm of your hand, push firmly over the breast bone forcing the chicken to lay completely flat. Use your thumbs to separate the skin from the meat over breast, thigh and drumstick areas.
3. In a small mixing bowl, combine the flavored butter ingredients. Mash with fork for a couple of minutes until lemon juice is mostly incorporated into butter. 
4. Spread 2/3 of mixture under the chicken skin and and dot/spread remaining butter all over chicken.
5. Place prepared vegetables all around the chicken and drizzle everything with olive oil. Sprinkle chicken and vegetables generously with salt and some black pepper to taste.
6. Bake uncovered at 425˚F for 45 min or until instant read thermometer reads 160˚F when inserted into thickest part of chicken breast**. Remove form oven and rest uncovered 10 minutes on a cutting board before serving.

Notes:

* Allow the raw chicken to sit at room temp for 30 min before using for even baking.
** Don't over-bake or the breast will be dry. Keep in mind internal temp will rise another 5-10 degrees after it comes out of oven. 